---
layout: post
title: "Burden"
date: 2009-05-17 11:14:13
categories: ['Uncategorized']
tags: ['The riches man in babylon', 'napoleon', 'scam', 'unrealistic', 'opportunity.']
---

So that is it! I have finally made enough to pay off all my debts, I am a free man now.  Penniless but never the less a free man. What I have read in the book "**The Richest Man in Babylon**" is true after all. Money when forced into ventures that returns high and unrealistic amounts, flees from the owner very fast.

From an economic point of view it is true indeed. There is only so much resources in the world, so if there really is an opportunity for all of us to make big bucks then someone from somewhere else is seriously looking into losing some big bucks.

But no one in the right mind would be willing party to be involved in this equation on the side that is losing big bucks, unless value of equal quantity is exchanged for that. So where then does this value come from. It can either be material (aka your local ipod, food, water... a product) or intangible (education, nail polishing service, house fixing service, web creation service). So the moral of the story is if someone says that any opportunity is going to pay up lots of money to you, you should really started looking to source out for the part of the business model that is value generating. If suppose after much search you find none of such is tagged to this huge payback for your money, then I think it is perhaps time to drop this opportunity however good it might seem.

"***Money when forced into ventures that returns high and unrealistic amounts, flees from the owner very fast.***" This lesson I have learned the hard way. But never the less it is still lesson learned. Follow not in my foot steps. Napoleon is a wise man indeed. Then again perhaps my advice will fall on deaf ears, so much people are into the idea of getting something for nothing nowadays. Laziness is a sin!