---
layout: post
title: "Jump!"
date: 2009-05-31 06:43:24
categories: ['Uncategorized']
tags: ['Uncertainty', 'I like', 'impatience', 'wait', 'paths', 'journey', 'open water', 'mother nature', 'jump', 'path']
---

Seriously I am feeling so stuck recently. I am neither advance nor retreat. Advancing in the path ahead means betraying my own beliefs about the way, retreating backwards means betraying my own integrity. 

I am stuck so badly stuck. If there were an enemy without I would have been able to easily solve this problem by conquering him. However the enemy seems to be no where and everywhere at the sametime. How does one attempt at fighting such an enemy like this?

I need to find him. That is what I will need to do. There is nothing like being stuck helplessly unable to identify the enemy while taing continous onslaughts  from god knows where.

I finally arrive along East Coast Beach. I dumped my bag and jumped right into the sea. I couldn't take it anymore. 

There I stayed alone, floating  in the sea, bobbing along with the tide, staring out at the vast open waters. Evening was coming. The sun was setting. There were no other sounds except the occasional crashing of waves on the white sandy beach. I felt so free all of a sudden. Life is supposed to be like this. Then I suddenly recalled!

My greatest love mother nature, I have neglected you for so long being distracted with all these meaningless urban life. Please forgive me.

Slowly I crawled back to shore, all wet. Now I have to think of a way to dry myself with neither towel nor a change of clothes.