---
layout: post
title: "Moving on"
date: 2010-11-27 05:31:38
categories: ['Uncategorized']
tags: []
---

The campaign with Mr Gwee, the Feng Shui Master, will finally draw to a temporary close at the end of this month. It had been a long one, full of fun, intrigue and excitement which has last for 1 years and 6 months. However the general trend in the market has changed and what I can offer in the arena of his business operations is no longer of use. It is convenient it finally came to an end of its own natural accord, as I have been deliberating on this issue of abrogating my services to him  for the past 6 months to free up resource capacity of my own for other things.

Along the way he had handed me quite a few valuable words of advice, which on many occasions have proved useful in pointing the way for my path ahead, though not often construed in the directions he of his intentions. These words I will keep to heart as I move along on my journey into new territories.

During our final session together at his office, our theme of conversation revolved around surprisingly the decisive difference between the rich and the poor.

"The poor", he said,  "sits around in coffee shops all day thinking and talking, but never turn their thoughts into action."

"The rich", he said " on the contrary constantly operates in the cycle of thinking accompanied by immediate action."

"Wealth is a mentality and not something physical like big cars, big houses.... aka  fool's gold " he concluded "  to grow big it is important to utilize the tool called incorporation. "

Along the way too, he did express some disappointment that his son fell amongst the second group of people and not the first, earning a meager $7K per month. That however is a story for another day.

7 pm came soon and it was finally time to leave, I bid my farewells to Peter and his staff and step out into the streets. With this I have released the last of the hawsers, mooring me to this harbour which I happened to chance upon during the storm of 2009.

The sun was in its zenith. The breeze was blowing gently. The sails has been set. All hands on the deck then, it is time to cast off into the unchartered waters. The journey down the path continues and the next adventure awaits just over the horizon.